# ERC777

ERC777 introduces hooks so that that contracts can execute code before and after token transfers. This can be used for a variety of use cases. It can improve the UX flow which for ERC20 tokens required two transactions to interact with a contract. One to approve the contract to spend tokens, and another to execute a function on the contract.

It also prevents tokens from being sent to contracts that do not support them, which is a common source of lost tokens.

Furthermore, these hooks can be used to reject tokens, using blacklist or whitelist patterns.

ERC777 also clarified issues around decimals which could be confusing in ERC20. Essentially the decimals of the token must always be 18 (if only this had been decided at an earlier date! It would have saved devs a lot of pain).

However there are some big problems with ERC777:
- Over-engineered
- It introduced reentrancy risk for token transfers
  - This is made worse by the fact that it is compatible with ERC20, which can lead developers to miss the extent of the reentrancy risk
  - It is also problematic due to the fact that the `callSender` hook is called before state is updated, violating the checks-effects-interactions pattern
- The `tokenReceived` hook has to trust that the caller does not provide malicious data
- It is gas intensive
- It requires registering with the ERC1822 contract, this complicates the design and increases gas costs
- It is not particularly intuitive for developers to use
- The notifications hooks do not return any value, therefore if incorrectly implemented on a contract with a fallback function, there could be a failure to call the hook which goes unnoticed

# ERC1363

ERC1363 is a simplified version of ERC777 which was proposed as it offers similar benefits, but solves many of the issues with ERC777. It is also backwards compatible with ERC20.

ERC777 is no longer recommended and ERC1363 is now preferred, these are some of the reasons why:
- Returns a the ERC-165 identifier for the interface from the hook `onTransferReceived` functions so you can ensure they have been called correctly.
- There is no need to register wit ERC1822
- It follows checks effects interactions pattern as `onTransferReceived` is only called after updating state
- It is more intuitive/simple
